Is this is one of multiple videos discussing layer 3 switching in a previous video I showed you how
to configure a switch with the last three functionality.
So I showed you how to enable IP routing on a switch to allow that switch to rot between one villain
and another.
We also configured two routers to act as PCs and we were able to ping from one router to another.
What I'll do now is extend the typology by bringing some Daka PCs.
These are essentially lightweight PCs that allow us to boot up Linux very quickly.
So what I'll do on the first PC
is configure it in a fourth villaine
so I'll give it an IP address of 10 1 for one and a default gateway of 10 1 4 2 5 4 losses set to the
DNS server to 10 1 4 2 5 4 I click safe all connect the PC to get it to 0 to on the switch.
So these two ports are in violent two and three.
And what we'll do now is configure the port in villaine for I'll start up the Daka PC and open up a
console to it.
So here's the console life config shows us the IP address of the PC.
One of the advantages of Daka is that it boots up extremely quickly.
So it was almost an instant pood.
Now the PC can't ping the switch because we need to configure the switch.
So at the moment pings are failing.
So go into the switch and have a look at the interfaces configured to show IP interface brief.
Notice we don't have a layer 3 interface in violent for we need to configure the IP address on the switch
to allow that PC to paying out a villain for.
We also need to configure villaine for and put the interface into villain for TV land for show veel
and brief.
We've now created a villain for and it's been added to the villain database.
That however does not create the VI or virtual switched interface.
We need to type interface a villain for to create the SVOD and configure the IP address on the switch.
So show IP interface brief.
The FBI has created IP addresses assigned but the interface is down.
So we need to know shut it show up the interface brief again allows us to see the interface but it's
currently down because no interfaces have been allocated to that villain so we need to put this interface
into Villon for the switchboard access the landfall.
Now when we use the command show IP interface brief we should see that the interface comes up that may
not happen immediately but after a while we should see that that interface comes up assuming that gigabit
0 to is in the right to reveal and which it is and assuming that that interfaces up up which it is noticed
now Villon landfall was up set back on the PC previously the PC couldn't paying its default gateway
but now it can and hopefully it will be able to ping Rodda to which it can and we can prove that by
looking at Rodda too.
I'm currently running a debug so show debug on Rodda to shows that IP ICMP debugging is enabled so we
should be able to ping wrote to and see the debugs which we do.
We should also be able to ping brought a one which we can once again this PC has an IP address of 10
one for one on the road at acting's PC two.
We should be able to paying that PC which we can.
So we've now enabled three lands on the slave three switch I'll configure a full thing to face and connect
it to the second Daka PC I'll change the IP address of that PC
to 10 to 1 5 to 1 default gateways 10 1 5 2 4 4.
And they'll set the DNS server to tend to add 1.5 to 2 5 4 clicks safe start up the PC open up a console
to get PCs booted.
So I have config IP addresses 10 1 5 1 PC will not be able to ping the first PC on the left until we've
configured the switch so configured the switch while leaving that ping going in the background.
So first thing we need to do is configure a V line so convert the villain 5 in this case so show V line
brief the line 5 is created.
PC can still not paying the other PC yet.
Because we have to put the interface into the right v line gigabit.
0 3 is currently in villaine one.
So interface gigabit to 0 3 switch port access a villain 5 show interface give to 0 3 switch port the
port is now in the land 5.
But the PC can still not paying PC 1 because we have to create a switched virtual interface.
We have a switch to a virtual interface for villaine for but not for Wii land 5.
So interface villaine 5 IP address 10 1 5 2 5 4 0 no shut it interface villaine 5 is come up show spending
tree ports are forwarding and pings are starting to succeed.
So a PC to ping PC one.
So I've now got four interfaces on the slave three switch configured into villaine routing I've configured
the villans and configured into villans rotting on the switch.
In other words it's acting as a layer 3 switch.
That's because the IP writing is enabled.
If I disable IP routing on the switch the pings will fail.
Notice the sequence numbers at forty nine meant stop.
They define enable IP routing.
Notice the pings start succeeding once again.
You need to have IP rodding enabled on a switch to allow it to do interval and routing as well as to
allow it to support rodding protocols.
So that was an example of how to configure a laya 3 switch into VLAN routing.
I hope you found the video useful if it's been of benefit to you.
Please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.